# Sentiment Analysis
Analyze sentiments of Amazon's baby product reviews by designing a Logistic Regression classifier.

Q1. 100 Points -
Overview and Assignment Goals:

The objectives of this assignment are the following:
-- Get set up on, and comfortable with, the miner platform
-- Handle text data (product reviews)
-- Use libraries to train and test logistic regression models on representations of the text data.

Detailed Description:

-- Go to the URL http://miner2.vsnet.gmu.edu/ . If you are on campus this link should be available. If not then you have to use a VPN to campus.

-- Register as a New User on miner with a user name that does not identify you. The user name will be displayed to all other users of the class. Only use gmu email addresses in the email field. All other users will be deleted. Also note that, unfortunately, if you forget your password you will have to register a new account -- the password retrieval capability is not working.

-- Enroll in Class. For Professor Das' in-person section, enroll in Data Mining, Prof. Das 584-001: Spring 2022. For Professor Das' online section, enroll in Data Mining, Prof. Das/online 584-003: Spring 2022. Make sure to enroll in the correct section!

-- Click on My Assignments and you should be able to see HW1

-- A practical application in e-commerce applications is to infer sentiment (or polarity) from free form review text submitted for range of products.

For the purposes of this assignment you have to use a logistic regression classifier to predict the sentiment for 18506 reviews for baby products provided in the test file (test.dat). Positive sentiment is represented by a review rating of +1 and Negative Sentiment is represented by a review rating of -1. You may choose any appropriate representation of the text data. We suggest experimenting with bag of words and ngram representations, with and without TF-IDF weighting.

In test.dat you are only provided the reviews but no ground truth rating.

The training data also contains 18506 reviews (in the file train_file.dat). Each row begins with the sentiment score followed by the text corresponding to the review.

For evaluation purposes (and the leaderboard) we will use the accuracy metric, comparing the predictions submitted by you on the test set with the ground truth.

Some things to note:
The public leaderboard shows results for 50% of randomly chosen test instances only. This is a standard practice in data mining challenges to avoid gaming of the system.
The private leaderboard score evaluates all the entries in the test set.
In a 24-hour cycle you are allowed to submit a prediction file a maximum of 10 times. 
Your final ranking will be based on your last submission.
format.dat shows an example file containing 18506 rows alternating with +1 and -1. Your test.dat should be similar to format.dat with the same number of rows i.e., 18506 but of course the sentiment score generated by your developed model.

Rules:

This is an individual assignment. Discussion of broad level strategies is allowed but any copying of prediction files and source codes will result in honor code violation.
Feel free to use the programming language of your choice for this assignment. We suggest using Python, which has many useful libraries that you can use. You do not need to implement logistic regression yourself.

You should submit your code. We suggest a Jupyter notebook. The TAs should be able to run your code and recreate the same accuracy as your Miner submission. If for some reason the same accuracy cannot be recreated, you will be asked to explain the discrepancy. So if you do any random sampling in your algorithm, make sure you save the samples in a file (and mention it on your report) so we can recreate the results.

Deliverables:

Valid Submissions to the Miner2.vsnet.gmu.edu website
Gradescope submission of a brief report and your source code.

Your source code should be submitted as a single zip file called HW1_LastName.zip. It should contain instructions for running your code in a readme file.

You must also submit, as a PDF file, a maximum 2-page, single-spaced report with details regarding the steps you followed for developing the classifier for predicting the product review sentiments. Be sure to include the following in the report:
Username Registered on miner website.
Rank & Accuracy score for your submission (at the time of writing the report).
Your methodology for choosing the approach and any associated parameters, including a discussion of the effects of different representation choices on accuracy and runtime.

Grading:
Grading for the assignment will be based on implementation (40%), the report (40%) and performance in terms of accuracy (20%).

